---
layout: post
title: Thinking of thinking
date: 2022-04-17 11:38:52+0100
comments: true
---

When we are faced with a problem, that we are expected to solve, we sometimes don’t know how to go about it.
If I were to give you an architectural diagram and asked “do you agree with this?” I wouldn’t know what to say really.
Does it solve your problem?
You think so?
Cool, I guess then.

The fundamental issue with that above interaction is that you aren’t really curious about the problem.
Someone says they have a problem, and they are asking if the solution is correct.
You don’t care about the problem or the solution.

So the first challenge around that is to relate to the problem.
How does that affect you?
If you get an incident with this architecture, will you be able to navigate it’s complexity quickly?
Can you explain it to someone else conveniently as well?
Does the terminology make sense?

This ties back to the curiosity.
Once the relatable aspect has been established, you need to figure out why the components exist.
Is the diagram complicated?
What’s the justification for it?
Can that be simplified?

But what if we understand the purpose of all the components?
What if we want to understand the performance of the system.
It is at that point that we need to run simulations.
A quick note of how certain scenarios would play out and if there are any dependencies or constraints we would have forgotten about.
The more you run these cheap simulations in your head, the more realistic the prediction, but it would never be accurate.
Because of bias.
You don’t know what you don’t know.
But at least you can account for what you do know.

